.TH LAX-MAKE "1" "August 2012" "lax-make #VERSION#" "Laxative manual"
.SH NAME
Laxative - Debian package creator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "lax make " "template" " " "name" " " "version"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Create a debian package using a selection of templates def to dh_make,
based upon a package 'type'. A list of package types and descriptions is
included below.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables
.B must
be set in order for
.BR lax-make (1)
to run. It will exit with an error if either are missing.
.TP
.I DEBFULLNAME
Your full name.
.TP
.I DEBEMAIL
Your email address.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I template
The type of the package to create. See the
.B TEMPLATES
section below.
.TP
.I name
The package's name. This must conform to Debian Policy:

http://www.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/ch-controlfields.html#s-f-Source

While periods in packages names are supported, it is not recommended as extra trickery is
required to have a package install a working 
.I cron.d/
entry.
.TP
.I version
The package's version number. This field is optional if using a template
that supports automatic discovery of the package version (E.G. a Java package
with a pom.xml). Specifying the option here overrides autodiscovery.
.SH TEMPLATES
.TP
.B generic
An all-purpose basic template with no frills. You will need to add information to complete the package - E.G. specifying which files to include in
.I debian/package.install 
.SH AUTHORS
Nick Robinson-Wall <nick@robinson-wall.com>

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lax (1)

.BR lax-build (1),
.BR lax-fakelog (1),
.BR lax-flush (1),
.BR lax-mock (1),
.BR lax-updatelog (1),
.BR lax-version (1)
