.TH LAX-UPDATELOG "1" "August 2012" "lax-updatelog #VERSION#" "Laxative manual"
.SH NAME
Laxative - changelog updater
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lax updatelog
.I version
.SH DESCRIPTION
Generates a new changelog entry in
.IR debian/changelog .
This will bump the version number of the package and include details of
the git commits made since the last entry. A backup of the changelog is
made in
.I debian/.changelog.lax
before writing to it.

This command expects a git tag to exist which is identical to the current
package version, minus the epoch. If you are running 
.RB ` lax " " "updatelog " 1:1.0.5'
and the previous package version is 1:1.0.4 there must be a git tag in place
named '1.0.4' for the 1:1.0.4 release commit.
.PP
.BR lax-flush (1)
will revert changes made by this command by restoring the version available in the
git HEAD. If the file has not been committed yet (new package) then it will be grabbed
from
.IR debian/.changelog.lax instead.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables
.B must
be set in order for
.BR lax-updatelog (1)
to run. It will exit with an error if either are missing.
.TP
.I DEBFULLNAME
Your full name.
.TP
.I DEBEMAIL
Your email address.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I version
The version number of the new changelog entry. This must be higher than the
previous entry's version number.
.SH AUTHORS
Nick Robinson-Wall <nick@robinson-wall.com>

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lax (1)

.BR lax-build (1),
.BR lax-fakelog (1)
.BR lax-flush (1),
.BR lax-make (1),
.BR lax-mock (1),
.BR lax-version (1)
