.TH LAX "1" "August 2012" "lax #VERSION#" "Laxative manual"
.SH NAME
Laxative - command wrapper
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "lax " COMMAND
.RI [ "COMMAND ARGS" ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Laxative assists in creating and building Debian packages.

Each laxative \fICOMMAND\fR is actually an independent script, 
.BR lax (1)
is a small wrapper around them. Individual command scripts can be found at
.BR lax-\fICOMMAND\fR (1)
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B build \fR[\fI--dirty\fR]
Builds the Debian package in the current directory
.TP
.BI "fakelog " "version"
Generates a fake entry in the debian/changelog file
.TP
.B flush
Cleans up any mess made by laxative. (Built packages, changelog entries)
.TP
.BI "make " "type name version"
Generates a new debian package called \fIname\fR of version \fIversion\fR in the current directory,
based on the set of templates selected by \fItype\fR.

See 
.BR lax-make (1)
for the list of valid package types.
.TP
.B mock
Mocks a Jenkins\-style build by generating a fake changelog entry and
triggering the prebuilt\-stamp target before calling `\fBlax build \-\-dirty\fR'
.TP
.BI "updatelog " "version"
Generates a new changelog entry for version \fIversion\fR, filling it with git commit hashes and messages
since the last version. This expects a git tag to exist which is identical
to the last changelog entry's version number.
.TP
.B version \fR[\fIoptions\fR] \fBversion\fR
Validates and manipulates laxative compatible version numbers.
.SH FILES
Packages created with
.BR lax-make (1)
have \fBlaxative\fR as a build dependency.
.PP
Package templates used by
.BR lax-make (1)
are located in
.I /usr/share/laxative/dh_make
.SH AUTHORS
Nick Robinson-Wall <nick@robinson-wall.com>

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lax-build (1),
.BR lax-fakelog (1),
.BR lax-flush (1),
.BR lax-make (1),
.BR lax-mock (1),
.BR lax-updatelog (1),
.BR lax-version (1)
